# Developer Guide

When developing a resource pack and data pack simultaneously, it makes things much easier to work on both in the same development environment and be able to export these to the game automatically. Some of the code in both the datapack and the resourcepack is auto-generated by this python code, as there are thousands of combinations of octaves/note blocks/instruments.

## Setup Guide

If you would like to make your own additions to this project, you can do so with this Dev Tools folder. Start by cloning this repository to this workspace.

Next, you'll want to modify config.py. You only need to edit the first two parameters, `MC_DIRECTORY` and `MC_SAVE`.

`MC_DIRECTORY` is the full path directory of your minecraft installation. For most people this is your .minecraft folder.

`MC_SAVE` should be the file name of the minecraft world you would like to export the datapack to. This is where you should test your changes.

## Dev File Structure

In the Scripts folder you should see three other .py files- `main.py`, `commandbuilder.py`, and `soundbuilder.py`.

`main.py` makes calls to the other two files in order to build the project- you can comment out these calls to rebuild where changes are needed.

`commandbuilder.py` auto-generates many of the function files in the datapack- particularly each of the files that determines which sound plays when a noteblock is powered. Since there are 8 octaves, 16 instruments, and 12 notes per octave, there are a LOT of combinations to go through, which is why this is auto-generated.

`soundbuilder.py` auto-generates the assets for the resource pack. In vanilla minecraft, note block sounds are actually played by taking a the middle-note of the instrument and pitching it up or down accordingly. Minecraft's sound system can only pitch up/down these files so far, so we have to generate all the possible combinations ahead of time. Each of these original 'middle notes' are stored in `Dev Tools/Assets/Original Sounds`. (it may be possible to only generate the middle note for each octave range and then pitch up/down this note using the /playsound command for each octave range just like minecraft does- I will attempt to make this work at some point. This will greatly reduce the number of files in the resourcepack.)